###SXSW - Austin
####LINK:

####ATTENDEE:
Aurelia Moser

####DATE:


####LOCATION:
Austin, TX

####TITLE
Mapping Spacetime: Time Travel via Timeless Maps

####TWITTER
spacetime

####SUMMARY FOR APPLICATION
Maps are a pretty persistent part of how we plot history, how we cartographically comprehend our present, and how might process a topographical trajectory of our future. They let us tell trends with data on a geospatial-sensitive canvas. Time travel is possible, and made geo-locally relevant through maps.
This talk will focus on how time-sensitive maps can give us insights into our past and our future; how open source tools like Torque.JS and the integration of satellite time-series imagery into contemporary web maps can redefine how we relate to time, showcasing maps as an ideal format for building beautiful visualizations that compliment a narrative arc of spacetime proportions.

####NOTES
Maps are a pretty persistent part of how we plot history, how we cartographically comprehend our present, and how might process a topographical trajectory of our future. They provide us with some of the most intuitive ways to represent data visually, principally because they offer a way to rectify our physical locality with some digital and data-dense topography; they help us build narrative with relevant geolocation and let us tell trends with data on a geospatial-sensitive canvas. Time travel is possible, and made geo-locally relevant through maps.

This talk will focus on how time-sensitive maps can give us insights into our past and our future; how open source tools like Torque.JS and the integration of satellite time-series imagery into contemporary web maps can redefine how we relate to time. It will highlight a few projects built with Javascript, CartoCSS and open source software, showcasing maps as an ideal format for building beautiful visualizations that compliment a narrative arc of spacetime proportions.

* <http://qz.com/432787/the-origin-of-leap-seconds-and-why-they-should-be-abolished/>
* <http://contentsmagazine.com/articles/10-timeframes/>

####LINKS
* [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1wndNYznUWJVozeH48NBT5enWqnEoWDTQl2jI6ivBPyA/edit?usp=sharing)
* [Panel Link](http://panelpicker.sxsw.com/ideas/47020)



####AUTHOR
Aurelia Moser
aurelia@cartodb.com
@auremoser

####BIO
Aurelia is a developer and curious cartographer building communities around code at CartoDB. Previously of Ushahidi and Internews Kenya, she's been working in the open tech and non-profit journalism space for a few years, and recent projects have had mapping sensor data to support agricultural security and sustainable apis ecosystems in the Global South.